service-worker/README.md, before:

# Snapkit Service Worker (Cloudinary-style)

**Automatically optimize ALL images on your website with viewport-aware sizing and DPR detection.**

Inspired by Cloudinary's Service Worker approach.

## Features

✅ **Zero Code Changes** - Works with existing `<img>` tags
🎯 **clientMetrics** - Viewport width and DPR auto-detection
🚀 **Auto Mode** - `quality: 'auto'`, `format: 'auto'`
📐 **Viewport-Aware** - Automatically limit image width to viewport
⚡ **3-Minute Setup** - Cloudinary-style configuration

## How It Works

```
Browser requests image
    ↓
Service Worker intercepts
    ↓
Applies clientMetrics (viewport, DPR)
    ↓
Transforms to Snapkit URL
    ↓
Returns optimized image
```

**Example:**
```
HTML:     <img src="https://example.com/photo.jpg">
          ↓
Config:   viewport=1920, dpr=2, quality=auto, format=auto, limitMaxWidth=true
          ↓
Request:  https://demo.snapkit.dev/image?url=https://example.com/photo.jpg&transform=w:1920,dpr:2,format:webp,quality:85
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Copy Files

```
your-project/
├── sw.js                    # Service Worker
├── register-sw.js           # Registration
└── snapkit-sw-config.js     # Config (optional)
```

### 2. Configure (Cloudinary-style)

```javascript
const config = {
  clientMetrics: {
    viewportWidth: window.innerWidth,      // Current viewport
    dpr: window.devicePixelRatio || 1,     // Device pixel ratio
    enabled: true,                         // Enable metrics
  },
  delivery: {
    organizationName: 'my-org',  // REQUIRED
  },
  optimization: {
    quality: 'auto',      // 'auto' → 85
    format: 'auto',       // 'auto' → webp
    limitMaxWidth: true,  // Max width = viewport
  },
};
```

### 3. Register

**Option A: URL Parameter (Cloudinary-style)**
```html
<script src="./register-sw.js"></script>
<script>
  const config = {
    clientMetrics: {
      viewportWidth: window.innerWidth,
      dpr: window.devicePixelRatio || 1,
      enabled: true,
    },
    delivery: { organizationName: 'my-org' },
    optimization: {
      quality: 'auto',
      format: 'auto',
      limitMaxWidth: true,
    },
  };

  // Pass config via URL (like Cloudinary)
  registerSnapkitServiceWorker(config, 'url');
</script>
```

**Option B: Config File**
```html
<script type="module">
  import config from './snapkit-sw-config.js';
  import { registerSnapkitServiceWorker } from './register-sw.js';

  registerSnapkitServiceWorker(config, 'url');
</script>
```

### 4. Done!

All images now automatically optimized with viewport-aware sizing:

```html
<!-- No changes needed -->
<img src="https://example.com/photo.jpg">
```

## Configuration

### Full Configuration Structure

```javascript
{
  // Client metrics (viewport and device info)
  clientMetrics: {
    viewportWidth: window.innerWidth,  // Viewport width in pixels
    dpr: window.devicePixelRatio || 1, // Device pixel ratio (1, 2, 3)
    enabled: true,                     // Enable clientMetrics
  },

  // Delivery (organization)
  delivery: {
    organizationName: 'my-org',  // REQUIRED
  },

  // Optimization settings
  optimization: {
    quality: 'auto',      // 'auto' or 1-100
    format: 'auto',       // 'auto' or 'webp', 'jpeg', 'png', 'avif'
    limitMaxWidth: true,  // Limit to viewport width

    // Optional overrides
    // w: 1200,           // Fixed width (overrides limitMaxWidth)
    // h: 800,            // Fixed height
    // fit: 'cover',      // Fit mode
    // blur: 10,          // Blur intensity
    // grayscale: true,   // Grayscale
    // rotation: 90,      // Rotation
  }
}
```

### Auto Mode

| Setting | Auto Value | Description |
|---------|------------|-------------|
| `quality: 'auto'` | `85` | Optimal quality/size balance |
| `format: 'auto'` | `webp` | Modern format with best compression |

### clientMetrics

| Metric | Purpose | Effect |
|--------|---------|--------|
| `viewportWidth` | Current viewport width | Sets max image width when `limitMaxWidth: true` |
| `dpr` | Device pixel ratio | Multiplies dimensions for retina displays |
| `enabled` | Enable/disable metrics | Toggle clientMetrics features |

## Examples

### Example 1: Basic (Auto Mode)

```javascript
registerSnapkitServiceWorker({
  delivery: { organizationName: 'my-org' },
  optimization: {
    quality: 'auto',
    format: 'auto',
  }
}, 'url');
```

### Example 2: Viewport-Aware (Recommended)

```javascript
registerSnapkitServiceWorker({
  clientMetrics: {
    viewportWidth: window.innerWidth,
    dpr: window.devicePixelRatio || 1,
    enabled: true,
  },
  delivery: { organizationName: 'my-org' },
  optimization: {
    quality: 'auto',
    format: 'auto',
    limitMaxWidth: true,  // Images won't exceed viewport
  }
}, 'url');
```

### Example 3: High-Quality Photography

```javascript
registerSnapkitServiceWorker({
  clientMetrics: {
    viewportWidth: window.innerWidth,
    dpr: window.devicePixelRatio || 1,
    enabled: true,
  },
  delivery: { organizationName: 'my-org' },
  optimization: {
    quality: 95,          // Higher quality
    format: 'webp',
    limitMaxWidth: false, // No limit
    w: 2400,             // Max 2400px
  }
}, 'url');
```

### Example 4: Mobile-Optimized

```javascript
registerSnapkitServiceWorker({
  clientMetrics: {
    viewportWidth: window.innerWidth,
    dpr: window.devicePixelRatio || 1,
    enabled: true,
  },
  delivery: { organizationName: 'my-org' },
  optimization: {
    quality: 75,          // Lower quality for speed
    format: 'webp',
    limitMaxWidth: true,  // Limit to viewport
  }
}, 'url');
```

## Registration Methods

### URL Parameter Method (Cloudinary-style)

Passes config via URL query parameter:

```javascript
registerSnapkitServiceWorker(config, 'url');
// Registers: ./sw.js?config={...encoded config...}
```

**Pros:**
- Config available immediately
- No postMessage needed
- Cloudinary-compatible approach

### postMessage Method (Default)

Sends config after registration:

```javascript
registerSnapkitServiceWorker(config, 'postMessage');
// or
registerSnapkitServiceWorker(config);
```

**Pros:**
- Smaller URL
- Can update config dynamically

## Demo

Run the example:

```bash
cd service-worker
python -m http.server 8000

# Open http://localhost:8000/examples/
```

Features in demo:
- Real-time viewport and DPR display
- URL transformation log
- Before/After comparison
- Responsive testing (resize window)

## Debugging

### Check clientMetrics

Open DevTools Console:
```
[Snapkit SW] Registering with config: {
  clientMetrics: { viewportWidth: 1920, dpr: 2, enabled: true },
  ...
}
```

### View Transformed URLs

DevTools → Network → Img:
```
https://demo.snapkit.dev/image?url=https://picsum.photos/800/600&transform=w:1920,dpr:2,format:webp,quality:85
```

### Test Viewport Awareness

1. Open demo page
2. Note viewport width in config display
3. Resize browser window
4. Reload page
5. See updated viewport width in URLs

## Browser Support

- ✅ Chrome 40+
- ✅ Firefox 44+
- ✅ Safari 11.1+
- ✅ Edge 17+
- ✅ **HTTPS required** (or localhost)

## API Reference

### registerSnapkitServiceWorker(config, registrationMethod)

**Parameters:**
- `config` (object, required) - Cloudinary-style configuration
  - `clientMetrics` (object) - Viewport and DPR settings
  - `delivery` (object) - Organization configuration
  - `optimization` (object) - Image transform settings
- `registrationMethod` (string, optional) - `'url'` or `'postMessage'` (default: `'url'`)

**Returns:** `Promise<ServiceWorkerRegistration|null>`

**Example:**
```javascript
await registerSnapkitServiceWorker({
  clientMetrics: { viewportWidth: 1920, dpr: 2, enabled: true },
  delivery: { organizationName: 'my-org' },
  optimization: { quality: 'auto', format: 'auto', limitMaxWidth: true }
}, 'url');
```

## Comparison with Cloudinary

| Feature | Cloudinary | Snapkit |
|---------|-----------|---------|
| clientMetrics | ✅ viewport, DPR | ✅ viewport, DPR |
| Auto mode | ✅ q_auto, f_auto | ✅ quality: 'auto', format: 'auto' |
| URL config | ✅ Query param | ✅ Query param |
| Viewport limit | ✅ | ✅ limitMaxWidth |
| Config structure | delivery, optimization | delivery, optimization |

## Performance Tips

1. **Enable limitMaxWidth** - Prevents loading oversized images
2. **Use clientMetrics** - Serves appropriate size for device
3. **Auto mode** - Optimal balance of quality and size
4. **DPR detection** - Retina displays get high-res images

## Migration from Simple Version

**Before:**
```javascript
registerSnapkitServiceWorker({
  organizationName: 'my-org',
  transform: { format: 'webp', quality: 85 }
});
```

**After (Cloudinary-style):**
```javascript
registerSnapkitServiceWorker({
  clientMetrics: {
    viewportWidth: window.innerWidth,
    dpr: window.devicePixelRatio || 1,
    enabled: true,
  },
  delivery: { organizationName: 'my-org' },
  optimization: { quality: 'auto', format: 'auto', limitMaxWidth: true }
}, 'url');
```

## Files

- **sw.js** (216 lines) - Service Worker with clientMetrics
- **register-sw.js** (157 lines) - Cloudinary-style registration
- **snapkit-sw-config.js** (42 lines) - Example configuration
- **examples/index.html** - Interactive demo

## License

MIT

## Links

- [Main Documentation](../README.md)
- [Examples](./examples/)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/snapkit/image-url)

Commit message:

docs: add Service Worker section to README files for image optimization
Enhance the documentation by introducing a new section on the Service Worker feature for image optimization in both English and Korean README files. This addition includes details on setup, configuration, and usage examples, emphasizing the benefits of using the Service Worker for existing sites with hardcoded image URLs and scenarios where code changes are not feasible.

Files updated:
- README.md
- README.ko.md
- New file: service-worker/README.md and service-worker/README.ko.md

This update aims to provide clearer guidance for developers on leveraging the Service Worker for improved image loading performance.

service-worker/README.md, after:

# Snapkit Service Worker (Cloudinary-style)

**Automatically optimize ALL images on your website with viewport-aware sizing and DPR detection.**

Inspired by Cloudinary's Service Worker approach.

## Features

✅ **Zero Code Changes** - Works with existing `<img>` tags
🎯 **clientMetrics** - Viewport width and DPR auto-detection
🚀 **Auto Mode** - `quality: 'auto'`, `format: 'auto'`
📐 **Viewport-Aware** - Automatically limit image width to viewport
⚡ **3-Minute Setup** - Cloudinary-style configuration

## How It Works

```
Browser requests image
    ↓
Service Worker intercepts
    ↓
Applies clientMetrics (viewport, DPR)
    ↓
Transforms to Snapkit URL
    ↓
Returns optimized image
```

**Example:**
```
HTML:     <img src="https://example.com/photo.jpg">
          ↓
Config:   viewport=1920, dpr=2, quality=auto, format=auto, limitMaxWidth=true
          ↓
Request:  https://demo.snapkit.dev/image?url=https://example.com/photo.jpg&transform=w:1920,dpr:2,format:webp,quality:85
```

## When to Use This

⚠️ **Important**: This Service Worker intercepts image requests at the browser level to apply transformations. While powerful, this approach is needed only in **specific scenarios**:

**Consider using Service Worker when:**
- You have an existing site with many hardcoded image URLs
- You cannot modify the HTML/component code
- You need to optimize third-party images you don't control
- You want zero-code-change image optimization

**For most cases, direct integration is more straightforward:**
- Use Snapkit URL builder directly in your components
- Better control over image optimization per use case
- Simpler debugging and maintenance
- No Service Worker complexity

If you're starting a new project or can modify your code, consider using the [main Snapkit integration](../README.md) instead.

---

## Quick Start

### 1. Copy Files

```
your-project/
├── sw.js                    # Service Worker
├── register-sw.js           # Registration
└── snapkit-sw-config.js     # Config (optional)
```

### 2. Configure (Cloudinary-style)

```javascript
const config = {
  clientMetrics: {
    viewportWidth: window.innerWidth,      // Current viewport
    dpr: window.devicePixelRatio || 1,     // Device pixel ratio
    enabled: true,                         // Enable metrics
  },
  delivery: {
    organizationName: 'my-org',  // REQUIRED
  },
  optimization: {
    quality: 'auto',      // 'auto' → 85
    format: 'auto',       // 'auto' → webp
    limitMaxWidth: true,  // Max width = viewport
  },
};
```

### 3. Register

**Option A: URL Parameter (Cloudinary-style)**
```html
<script src="./register-sw.js"></script>
<script>
  const config = {
    clientMetrics: {
      viewportWidth: window.innerWidth,
      dpr: window.devicePixelRatio || 1,
      enabled: true,
    },
    delivery: { organizationName: 'my-org' },
    optimization: {
      quality: 'auto',
      format: 'auto',
      limitMaxWidth: true,
    },
  };

  // Pass config via URL (like Cloudinary)
  registerSnapkitServiceWorker(config, 'url');
</script>
```

**Option B: Config File**
```html
<script type="module">
  import config from './snapkit-sw-config.js';
  import { registerSnapkitServiceWorker } from './register-sw.js';

  registerSnapkitServiceWorker(config, 'url');
</script>
```

### 4. Done!

All images now automatically optimized with viewport-aware sizing:

```html
<!-- No changes needed -->
<img src="https://example.com/photo.jpg">
```

## Configuration

### Full Configuration Structure

```javascript
{
  // Client metrics (viewport and device info)
  clientMetrics: {
    viewportWidth: window.innerWidth,  // Viewport width in pixels
    dpr: window.devicePixelRatio || 1, // Device pixel ratio (1, 2, 3)
    enabled: true,                     // Enable clientMetrics
  },

  // Delivery (organization)
  delivery: {
    organizationName: 'my-org',  // REQUIRED
  },

  // Optimization settings
  optimization: {
    quality: 'auto',      // 'auto' or 1-100
    format: 'auto',       // 'auto' or 'webp', 'jpeg', 'png', 'avif'
    limitMaxWidth: true,  // Limit to viewport width

    // Optional overrides
    // w: 1200,           // Fixed width (overrides limitMaxWidth)
    // h: 800,            // Fixed height
    // fit: 'cover',      // Fit mode
    // blur: 10,          // Blur intensity
    // grayscale: true,   // Grayscale
    // rotation: 90,      // Rotation
  }
}
```

### Auto Mode

| Setting | Auto Value | Description |
|---------|------------|-------------|
| `quality: 'auto'` | `85` | Optimal quality/size balance |
| `format: 'auto'` | `webp` | Modern format with best compression |

### clientMetrics

| Metric | Purpose | Effect |
|--------|---------|--------|
| `viewportWidth` | Current viewport width | Sets max image width when `limitMaxWidth: true` |
| `dpr` | Device pixel ratio | Multiplies dimensions for retina displays |
| `enabled` | Enable/disable metrics | Toggle clientMetrics features |

## Examples

### Example 1: Basic (Auto Mode)

```javascript
registerSnapkitServiceWorker({
  delivery: { organizationName: 'my-org' },
  optimization: {
    quality: 'auto',
    format: 'auto',
  }
}, 'url');
```

### Example 2: Viewport-Aware (Recommended)

```javascript
registerSnapkitServiceWorker({
  clientMetrics: {
    viewportWidth: window.innerWidth,
    dpr: window.devicePixelRatio || 1,
    enabled: true,
  },
  delivery: { organizationName: 'my-org' },
  optimization: {
    quality: 'auto',
    format: 'auto',
    limitMaxWidth: true,  // Images won't exceed viewport
  }
}, 'url');
```

### Example 3: High-Quality Photography

```javascript
registerSnapkitServiceWorker({
  clientMetrics: {
    viewportWidth: window.innerWidth,
    dpr: window.devicePixelRatio || 1,
    enabled: true,
  },
  delivery: { organizationName: 'my-org' },
  optimization: {
    quality: 95,          // Higher quality
    format: 'webp',
    limitMaxWidth: false, // No limit
    w: 2400,             // Max 2400px
  }
}, 'url');
```

### Example 4: Mobile-Optimized

```javascript
registerSnapkitServiceWorker({
  clientMetrics: {
    viewportWidth: window.innerWidth,
    dpr: window.devicePixelRatio || 1,
    enabled: true,
  },
  delivery: { organizationName: 'my-org' },
  optimization: {
    quality: 75,          // Lower quality for speed
    format: 'webp',
    limitMaxWidth: true,  // Limit to viewport
  }
}, 'url');
```

## Registration Methods

### URL Parameter Method (Cloudinary-style)

Passes config via URL query parameter:

```javascript
registerSnapkitServiceWorker(config, 'url');
// Registers: ./sw.js?config={...encoded config...}
```

**Pros:**
- Config available immediately
- No postMessage needed
- Cloudinary-compatible approach

### postMessage Method (Default)

Sends config after registration:

```javascript
registerSnapkitServiceWorker(config, 'postMessage');
// or
registerSnapkitServiceWorker(config);
```

**Pros:**
- Smaller URL
- Can update config dynamically

## Demo

Run the example:

```bash
cd service-worker
python -m http.server 8000

# Open http://localhost:8000/examples/
```

Features in demo:
- Real-time viewport and DPR display
- URL transformation log
- Before/After comparison
- Responsive testing (resize window)

## Debugging

### Check clientMetrics

Open DevTools Console:
```
[Snapkit SW] Registering with config: {
  clientMetrics: { viewportWidth: 1920, dpr: 2, enabled: true },
  ...
}
```

### View Transformed URLs

DevTools → Network → Img:
```
https://demo.snapkit.dev/image?url=https://picsum.photos/800/600&transform=w:1920,dpr:2,format:webp,quality:85
```

### Test Viewport Awareness

1. Open demo page
2. Note viewport width in config display
3. Resize browser window
4. Reload page
5. See updated viewport width in URLs

## Browser Support

- ✅ Chrome 40+
- ✅ Firefox 44+
- ✅ Safari 11.1+
- ✅ Edge 17+
- ✅ **HTTPS required** (or localhost)

## API Reference

### registerSnapkitServiceWorker(config, registrationMethod)

**Parameters:**
- `config` (object, required) - Cloudinary-style configuration
  - `clientMetrics` (object) - Viewport and DPR settings
  - `delivery` (object) - Organization configuration
  - `optimization` (object) - Image transform settings
- `registrationMethod` (string, optional) - `'url'` or `'postMessage'` (default: `'url'`)

**Returns:** `Promise<ServiceWorkerRegistration|null>`

**Example:**
```javascript
await registerSnapkitServiceWorker({
  clientMetrics: { viewportWidth: 1920, dpr: 2, enabled: true },
  delivery: { organizationName: 'my-org' },
  optimization: { quality: 'auto', format: 'auto', limitMaxWidth: true }
}, 'url');
```

## Comparison with Cloudinary

| Feature | Cloudinary | Snapkit |
|---------|-----------|---------|
| clientMetrics | ✅ viewport, DPR | ✅ viewport, DPR |
| Auto mode | ✅ q_auto, f_auto | ✅ quality: 'auto', format: 'auto' |
| URL config | ✅ Query param | ✅ Query param |
| Viewport limit | ✅ | ✅ limitMaxWidth |
| Config structure | delivery, optimization | delivery, optimization |

## Performance Tips

1. **Enable limitMaxWidth** - Prevents loading oversized images
2. **Use clientMetrics** - Serves appropriate size for device
3. **Auto mode** - Optimal balance of quality and size
4. **DPR detection** - Retina displays get high-res images

## Migration from Simple Version

**Before:**
```javascript
registerSnapkitServiceWorker({
  organizationName: 'my-org',
  transform: { format: 'webp', quality: 85 }
});
```

**After (Cloudinary-style):**
```javascript
registerSnapkitServiceWorker({
  clientMetrics: {
    viewportWidth: window.innerWidth,
    dpr: window.devicePixelRatio || 1,
    enabled: true,
  },
  delivery: { organizationName: 'my-org' },
  optimization: { quality: 'auto', format: 'auto', limitMaxWidth: true }
}, 'url');
```

## Files

- **sw.js** (216 lines) - Service Worker with clientMetrics
- **register-sw.js** (157 lines) - Cloudinary-style registration
- **snapkit-sw-config.js** (42 lines) - Example configuration
- **examples/index.html** - Interactive demo

## License

MIT

## Links

- [Main Documentation](../README.md)
- [Examples](./examples/)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/snapkit/image-url)
